# Problem 26: Reciprocal Cycles

## The link to the problem

- [Reciprocal Cycles](https://projecteuler.net/problem=26)

## My approach

A naive algorithm to know repetend length is to continue dividing until we get a same remainder.
If we implement it, it is easy to solve this problem.

```python
max_length = 0
answer = 0
for denom in range(1000 - 1, 1, -1):
    if denom <= max_length:
        break
    repetend_length = get_repetend_length(denom)
    if repetend_length > max_length:
        answer = denom
        max_length = repetend_length

print(answer)
```

## Improvement

In this problem, it's fast enough by naive method because $d$ is small.
I'll think an efficient way to know the repetend length for large $d$.

Assume that $f(d)$ is a function to get recurring cycle in its decimal fraction part of reciprocal for number $d$.
There isn't recurring decimal when $d = 2^{a} 5^{b} \ (a \ge 0, \ b \ge 0)$. It therefore shows $f(2^{a} 5^{b} x) = f(x)$ 
if $x$ is neither a multiple of 2 nor a multiple of 5.
And then, it also shows it is enough to check only $d \in [500, 1000)$ in the problem.

Let $N$ is positive integer where $N$ and 10 are coprime ($N$ > 2).
The repetend of decimal fraction part of $\displaystyle \frac{1}{N}$ is $999 \cdots 9$ ($k$-digit, $k>0$) divided by $N$.

$$
\begin{align}
10^{k} - 1 & \equiv 0 \ (\text{mod} \ N) \\
\therefore 10^{k} & \equiv 1 \ (\text{mod} \ N)
\end{align}
$$

It shows recurring cycle $f(N) = k$ is
the [multiplicative order](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiplicative_order) of $10$ modulo $N$.

Next, use [Euler's theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euler%27s_theorem) to find $k$ efficiently.
Assume that $n$ and $a$ are coprime, and $\varphi (n)$ is Euler's totient function:

$$
a^{\varphi (n)} \equiv 1 \ \text{(mod} \ n \text{)} \\
$$

Since $N$ and 10 are coprime:

$$
\begin{align}
10^{\varphi (N)} & \equiv 1 \ \text{(mod} \ N \text{)} \\
\therefore k \ & | \ \varphi (N)
\end{align}
$$

Check divisors of $\varphi(N)$ in ascend order to find $k$.

This algorithm improves performance, especially when $d$ is large.
Here is a result by Julia on Raspberry Pi 4.

```console
julia> @time solve_0026(10^6)
  0.000943 seconds (1.19 k allocations: 121.734 KiB)
999983

julia> @time solve_0026(10^9)
  0.063782 seconds (52.86 k allocations: 4.280 MiB)
999999739
```

#### PS

The [Carmichael function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carmichael_function) can be used instead of the Euler's theorem.
It will be a little faster.
