\[[<](./p0028.md)] \[[^](../README.md)] | \[[>](./p0030.md)]

# Problem 29: Distinct Powers

## The link to the problem

- [Distinct Powers](https://projecteuler.net/problem=29)

## My approach

Maybe I think this problem is intended to be calculated by taking the logarithm to treat big numbers.
If we can use arbitrary-precision arithmetic, we don't even need to use the logarithm.

## Consideration of improvement

This problem can be solved easily by brute force, however, I'll think to solve by other approach.

Let's look at the conditions under which the same values appear.
In conclusion, we see this situation is produced when $a$ is a power.
For example, assume that $a$ is a square number:

$$
(x^2)^{y} =  (x^1)^{2y}
$$

The above equation shows there are 49 different $b \text{s}$ when $a$ is a square number since $b = y > 1$ and $2y \le 100$.

Next, we think in the case of $a$ is a cube number. In this case, there are two equations.

$$
\begin{align}
(x^3)^{y} & = (x^1)^{3y} \\
(x^3)^{2y} & = (x^2)^{3y}
\end{align}
$$

The former gives $b=y$, so $b \in \lbrace 2, 3, \cdots, 33 \rbrace$. The latter gives $b = 2y$, so $b \in \lbrace 2, 4, \cdots, 66 \rbrace$.

When $a$ is a fourth power, it changes a little.

$$
\begin{align}
(x^4)^{y} & = (x^1)^{4y} \\
(x^4)^{2y} & = (x^2)^{4y} \\
(x^4)^{3y} & = (x^3)^{4y}
\end{align}
$$

The second equation gives $b \in \lbrace 2, 3, \cdots, 50 \rbrace$. Its step is $1$ not $2$.

In this way, the number of duplicates can be counted.
The naive counting method is sufficient for this problem because the upper limit $100$ is low.
However, we should need to use more efficient method for counting such the inclusion-division principle when the upper limit is larger.

