# Problem 44: Pentagon Numbers

## The link to the problem

- [Pentagon Numbers](https://projecteuler.net/problem=44)

## My approach

I posted the [article](https://projecteuler.net/action=redirect;post_id=397565) on the thread.
The following is an overview of it.

Assume that $P_{j}$ and $P_{k} \ (j < k)$ are pentagonal numbers which satisfy the conditions.
The first four pairs of $P_{j}$ and $P_{k}$ in ascending order of $k$ are the following (note: I hide the answer).

$$
\begin{array}{cc|cc}
\hline
P_{j} & P_{k} & P_{k} - P_{j} & P_{k} + P_{j} \\
\hline
P_{aaa}  &  P_{bbb}  &  P_{xxx}  & P_{yyy} \\
P_{52430}  &  P_{91650}  &  P_{75172}  &  P_{105587} \\
P_{95506}  &  P_{110461}  &  P_{55500}  &  P_{146024} \\
P_{111972}  &  P_{121168}  &  P_{46303}  &  P_{164983} \\
\hline
\end{array}
$$

We can find pentagonal pairs which difference and sum are pentagonal
if we search for them in order of from smallest to largest $P_{k}$ or $P_{k} + P_{j}$.
Besides, it is true that the the first found pair's difference is the smallest.
However, this method doesn't guarantee that the difference of the first found pair is the smallest,
and it just happened to find the correct answer.

In fact, the pair of $P_{52430}$ and $P_{91650}$ which will be found second with the method
has the largest difference $P_{75172}$ in the above table.
It shows that the method can't find pairs in order of from smallest to largest difference.
We have to continue checking up to much larger pentagonal number
to guarantee the difference of the first found pair is smallest.
So, let's solve the problem in a different approach.

Assume that pentagonal numbers $P_{j}, P_{k}$ and $P_{d}$ where $P_{d} = P_{k} - P_{j} \ (j < k)$.
Search for $P_{j}$ and $P_{k}$ in order from smallest to largest $P_{d}$.
When such $P_{j}$ and $P_{k}$ are found, check the sum of them is pentagonal or not.

#### Method 1

Asuume that $x = k - j$:

$$
\begin{align}
P_{d} & = P_{k} - P_{j} \\
      & = P_{x+j} - P_{j} \\
      & = \frac{6jx + 3x^{2} - x}{2} \\
      & = 3jx + P_{x} \\
\therefore j & = \frac{P_{d} - P_{x}}{3x}
\end{align}
$$

Clearly $0 < x < d$.
We can solve the problem using the above equation.

#### Method 2

$$
\begin{aligned}
P_{d} & = P_{k} - P_{j} \\\
\Leftrightarrow d(3d-1) & = k(3k-1) - j(3j-1) \\\
        & = (k-j)(3(k+j) - 1)
\end{aligned}
$$

Clearly $0 < k-j < d$.
Using the above equation solves the problem more faster than the method 1.

