# Problem 51: Prime Digit Replacements

## The link to the problem

- [Prime Digit Replacements](https://projecteuler.net/problem=51)

## My approach

We can know some conditions from the problem statement.

1. The lowest digit is not eligible for substitution
1. The number of digits of the prime numbers is greater than number of digits to be substituted
1. If prime family size is 8, at least one of 0, 1 or 2 is a number to be substituted
1. The number of digits that can be substituted is a multiple of 3

The reason why the number of substitutable digits is a multiple of 3 is described below.

First, the way to check for multiple of 3 is that if the sum of digits in a number
is a multiple of 3 then the number is a multiple of 3.
Let $x$ is a number of digits to be substituted.
Replaced numbers and its modulo 3 are the following.

$$
\begin{array}{ccc}
\hline
\text{number (after replacement)} & \text{sum} & \text{modulo 3} \\
\hline
0 & 0 & 0 \\
1 & x & x \ mod \ 3 \\
2 & 2x & 2x \ mod \ 3 \\
3 & 3x & 0 \\
4 & 4x & x \ mod \ 3 \\
5 & 5x & 2x \ mod \ 3 \\
6 & 6x & 0 \\
7 & 7x & x \ mod \ 3 \\
8 & 8x & 2x \ mod \ 3 \\
9 & 9x & 0 \\
\hline
\end{array}
$$

Here is a table of grouping by modulo 3.

$$
\begin{array}{cc}
\hline
\text{modulo 3} & number \\
\hline
0 & 0, \ 3, \ 6, \ 9 \\
x \ mod \ 3 & 1, \ 4, \ 7 \\
2x \ mod \ 3 & 2, \ 5, \ 8 \\
\hline
\end{array}
$$

If $x$ is not a multiple of 3,
the above table indicates that at least three numbers will be multiples of 3 after substitution.
This indicates that there are only less than 8 prime numbers in the group after substitution.

The following is an example of 2-digit substitution. Let the original number be 12**33**1, and **33** is the target of substitution.

$$
\begin{array}{cc|cc}
\hline
\text{2-digit number} & \text{modulo 3} & \text{substituted number} & \text{modulo 3} \\
\hline
00 & 0 & 12001 & 1 \\
11 & 2 & 12111 & 0 \\
22 & 1 & 12221 & 2 \\
33 & 0 & 12331 & 1 \\
44 & 2 & 12441 & 0 \\
55 & 1 & 12551 & 2 \\
66 & 0 & 12661 & 1 \\
77 & 2 & 12771 & 0 \\
88 & 1 & 12881 & 2 \\
99 & 0 & 12991 & 1 \\
\hline
\end{array}
$$

The above table shows the 2-digit substitution is inappropriate
because at least three numbers become multiples of 3 after substitution.

Therefore, the number of substitutable digits must be a multiple of 3.

